0.5. Introduction 
    We will start by giving an introduction to the field of 2D CFTs

1. Quantum field theory
    From QM, it's a change of picture 
    Fields of matter instead of dot matter or objects
    We can get back QM with specific fields using adapted Lagrangians
    Two visions: operator and path-integral

2. Correlation functions
    They are the equiv to scattering matrix or Hamiltonian in QM
    Explain formulas on slide
    It can be negative and doesn't have a defined density. 
    It is the natural generalization of statistic's correlation.

3. Conformal field theories
    Poincaré algebra preserved by QFT
    Symmetry gives information on the theory
    What is conformal transformation 
    Hence what is a conformal symmetry

4. Conformal Generators
    There is the Lorentz group, the translations
    Dilatations and special conformal transformations

5. 2D CFTs and chirality
    DRAW
    Now let's consider a 2D theory
    If 2D => C, it is just particles moving in 1D
    If 2D => manifold, string moving in manifold, on the surface of which there can be excitations 
    Particles in 1D + massless => speed = c
    Particles either go left or right, decoupled
    We take chiral coordinates 
    As a manifestation of this, energy-momentum tensor also decouples 
    It is the momentum of particles going left or right

6. Virasoro algebra
    We also have the local conformal group represented in the theory
    In 2D, it is infinite dimensional: Virasoro algebra, decomposition of the energy-momentum tensor 
    This leads to a partition of the CFT in Verma modules

6.1 RCFTs
    Chiral algebra
    For any CFT we don't know if there is a chiral algebra
    The modules are all physically possible (positive mass etc) modules of the chiral algebra
    There is always a Virasoro algebra inside 
    Hence what are the algebras that can do this? 

7 OPE and algebra
    I speak of algebra but what algebra
    OPE, only makes sense inside of a correlation function
    There is always I such that i > I, C_i = 0
    This structure is called in mathematics a vertex operator algebra
    Now a chiral algebra with additional restrictrions (generated from a finite number of primary fields and by the energy momentum tensor) is called a W algebra. We write 
    W(2, \dots)
    Ex: Zaclamidov W(2, 3) algebra 
    There is always a 2 since it is the energy momentum tensor
    We will see after how 1s are generated, and any 1 can be generated this way
    1.5, 2.5, etc
    We don't know which exist and which don't, above writing not unique



8. The WZW model Transition slide
    Now, the objective will be to generate W algebras
    W algebras are hard to generate, hard to study
    We know some series, some isolated W algebras, but we are far from knowing them all
    The idea is to use the rich theory of Lie structures to build W algebras
    We want a 2D RCFT modelling particles on a Lie group for exemple

9. The Sigma model
    Very basic model describing a variety of situations
    accounts for the momentum and only the momentum (aka massless)
    basically an embedding of Sigma on X accounting for the geometry

10. Sigma model on Lie algebras
    The model can be defined on a Lie algebra. Then, taking the exponential map, we can get it back on a Lie group
    The Cartan Maurer form appear, symbol of the geometry of G

11. Conformality at two levels
    Ofc should be conformal: we can zoom the string itself
    But should also be conformal on the Lie group, can zoom or dezoom the group 
    At least it is the case on a flat space 
    Similar to cft where we have T thanks to translation symmetry which decouples, we should have a momentum of the string on the Lie algebra, going left or right 
    In fact, there is  a GxG symmetry (left and right translation) but weird bc of the symmetry of the Lie algebra 


12. Geometrical obstruction
    In a CFT, we have \partial T + \partial T = 0 as cons eq, but vanish separately thanks to tracelessness?
    Here, both vanishing separately would imply a flat geometry, which is already known

13. The topological term
    The idea is to first compact the space (explain what becomes the string)
    Apparently this doesn't change the physics much
    But then expand the base manifold of the field, such that excitations can diseappear in the sphere and reappear somewhere else upon facing an obstruction
    From this idea, the additional term is natural
    account for momentum in the ball 
    Just 3 times the wedge of cartan maurer forms

14. The WZW model
    Sur un niveau classique, le terme topologique est invariant homotopique
    Mais si on prend les sauts en compte (sur un niveau quantique) c'est plus le cas. 
    Il y a un saut de xx, donc on multiplie par la bonne constante pour que ca change rien 
    equiv de la velocité du saut 
    Apres, il y a le k qui apparait dans l'equation de conservation de mouvement, on match les constantes pour faire disparaitre un terme
    k facteur topologique, niveau de la théorie
    The algebra underlying is the affine kac moody algebra, fundamental to many things in maths

15. Toda field theory
    Very natural model of particles on Lie group, with a single constraint

    It turns out it is equivalent to a reduced WZW-model, where we imposed the same condition on the WZW-model
    The algebra underlying is a W algebra, with not currents but real additional primary fields of k>2 conformal dimension. 
    For exemple, for g = An, we get the celebrated casimir algebra, W(2, 3, 4.., n)
    So by reducing WZW, we can obtain highly non-trivial W algebra

16. Generalizing conditions
    In the same kind of vein, how can we put conditions on the WZW-model
    We consider only one side obv, we want to restrict the velocity of the particles 
    We can just write the velocity as M + j
    in term of Lagrangian multiplier, this is the below formula

17. First-classness of the conditions
    How do we know if such general conditions can result in a consistent theory? 
    The idea first is to simplify this to first class constraints, so there is no redundancy in the theory

18. Conformality of the reduction
    We also want the resulting theory to be conformal
    We want to make sure that there is still a conformal action
    To do so we can modify the actual conformal action such that it leaves the constrained surface invariant
    We add a potential term to create a valley in which the particles stay 

18.5 Conditions on H
    We see that modifying the conformal action this way leaves the constrained surface invariant iff 
    The last condition leaves us thinking that we should have [H, M] + M = 0 
    This is a possible choice of M if H is diagonalizable so we take H diag and [H, M] = -M

19. The Drinfield-Sokolov gauge
    Now, with these conditions, can we compute a coherent algebra? 
    Actually, someone found an algorithm to compute the algebra under 2 more conditions very natural, in the Drinfield Sokolov gauge

19.5 Last conditions
    Based off this idea, we can find two last conditions
    Actually, under these conditions, we have a polynomial algorithm finding explicitely the algebra
    So the algebra exists for sure

20. Good gradings
    We simplify everything in good gradings. What's more, good grading allows for (is necessecary for) BRST procedure. We thus have a very simple way of computing the algebra. 



21. Good gradings
    What is a good grading? Diagram of injective surjective of ad f 

22. From shifting constant to blocks

23. From Hamiltonian term to pyramids
    After explaining how to read e, we can give an interpretation of the pyramid

25. Infinite W algebra